\documentclass[man]{apa6}
\usepackage{lmodern}
\usepackage{amssymb,amsmath}
\usepackage{ifxetex,ifluatex}
\usepackage{fixltx2e} % provides \textsubscript
\ifnum 0\ifxetex 1\fi\ifluatex 1\fi=0 % if pdftex
  \usepackage[T1]{fontenc}
  \usepackage[utf8]{inputenc}
\else % if luatex or xelatex
  \ifxetex
    \usepackage{mathspec}
  \else
    \usepackage{fontspec}
  \fi
  \defaultfontfeatures{Ligatures=TeX,Scale=MatchLowercase}
\fi
% use upquote if available, for straight quotes in verbatim environments
\IfFileExists{upquote.sty}{\usepackage{upquote}}{}
% use microtype if available
\IfFileExists{microtype.sty}{%
\usepackage{microtype}
\UseMicrotypeSet[protrusion]{basicmath} % disable protrusion for tt fonts
}{}
\usepackage{hyperref}
\hypersetup{unicode=true,
            pdftitle={Replication in Social Psychology},
            pdfauthor={Jordan Mark Barbone},
            pdfkeywords={Social psychology, Replication, Collaboration},
            pdfborder={0 0 0},
            breaklinks=true}
\urlstyle{same}  % don't use monospace font for urls
\usepackage{graphicx,grffile}
\makeatletter
\def\maxwidth{\ifdim\Gin@nat@width>\linewidth\linewidth\else\Gin@nat@width\fi}
\def\maxheight{\ifdim\Gin@nat@height>\textheight\textheight\else\Gin@nat@height\fi}
\makeatother
% Scale images if necessary, so that they will not overflow the page
% margins by default, and it is still possible to overwrite the defaults
% using explicit options in \includegraphics[width, height, ...]{}
\setkeys{Gin}{width=\maxwidth,height=\maxheight,keepaspectratio}
\IfFileExists{parskip.sty}{%
\usepackage{parskip}
}{% else
\setlength{\parindent}{0pt}
\setlength{\parskip}{6pt plus 2pt minus 1pt}
}
\setlength{\emergencystretch}{3em}  % prevent overfull lines
\providecommand{\tightlist}{%
  \setlength{\itemsep}{0pt}\setlength{\parskip}{0pt}}
\setcounter{secnumdepth}{0}
% Redefines (sub)paragraphs to behave more like sections
\ifx\paragraph\undefined\else
\let\oldparagraph\paragraph
\renewcommand{\paragraph}[1]{\oldparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi
\ifx\subparagraph\undefined\else
\let\oldsubparagraph\subparagraph
\renewcommand{\subparagraph}[1]{\oldsubparagraph{#1}\mbox{}}
\fi

%%% Use protect on footnotes to avoid problems with footnotes in titles
\let\rmarkdownfootnote\footnote%
\def\footnote{\protect\rmarkdownfootnote}


  \title{Replication in Social Psychology}
    \author{Jordan Mark Barbone\textsuperscript{1}}
    \date{}
  
\shorttitle{Replication Social Psychology}
\affiliation{
\vspace{0.5cm}
\textsuperscript{1} West Chester University of Pennsylvania University}
\keywords{Social psychology, Replication, Collaboration\newline\indent Word count: X}
\usepackage{csquotes}
\usepackage{upgreek}
\captionsetup{font=singlespacing,justification=justified}

\usepackage{longtable}
\usepackage{lscape}
\usepackage{multirow}
\usepackage{tabularx}
\usepackage[flushleft]{threeparttable}
\usepackage{threeparttablex}

\newenvironment{lltable}{\begin{landscape}\begin{center}\begin{ThreePartTable}}{\end{ThreePartTable}\end{center}\end{landscape}}

\makeatletter
\newcommand\LastLTentrywidth{1em}
\newlength\longtablewidth
\setlength{\longtablewidth}{1in}
\newcommand{\getlongtablewidth}{\begingroup \ifcsname LT@\roman{LT@tables}\endcsname \global\longtablewidth=0pt \renewcommand{\LT@entry}[2]{\global\advance\longtablewidth by ##2\relax\gdef\LastLTentrywidth{##2}}\@nameuse{LT@\roman{LT@tables}} \fi \endgroup}


\DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor{ThreePartTable}{table}
\DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor{lltable}{table}
\DeclareDelayedFloatFlavor*{longtable}{table}
\makeatletter
\renewcommand{\efloat@iwrite}[1]{\immediate\expandafter\protected@write\csname efloat@post#1\endcsname{}}
\makeatother
\usepackage{lineno}

\linenumbers

\authornote{Department of Psychology, 125 West Rosedale
Avenue, West Chester University of Pennsylvania, West Chester, PA,
19383. Paper prepared for PSY609 Advanced Social Psychology.

Correspondence concerning this article should be addressed to Jordan
Mark Barbone, Postal address. E-mail:
\href{mailto:jb769904@wcupa.edu}{\nolinkurl{jb769904@wcupa.edu}}}

\abstract{
One or two sentences providing a \textbf{basic introduction} to the
field, comprehensible to a scientist in any discipline.

Two to three sentences of \textbf{more detailed background},
comprehensible to scientists in related disciplines.

One sentence clearly stating the \textbf{general problem} being
addressed by this particular study.

One sentence summarizing the main result (with the words ``\textbf{here
we show}'' or their equivalent).

Two or three sentences explaining what the \textbf{main result} reveals
in direct comparison to what was thought to be the case previously, or
how the main result adds to previous knowledge.

One or two sentences to put the results into a more \textbf{general
context}.

Two or three sentences to provide a \textbf{broader perspective},
readily comprehensible to a scientist in any discipline.


}

\usepackage{amsthm}
\newtheorem{theorem}{Theorem}[section]
\newtheorem{lemma}{Lemma}[section]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{definition}{Definition}[section]
\newtheorem{corollary}{Corollary}[section]
\newtheorem{proposition}{Proposition}[section]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{example}{Example}[section]
\theoremstyle{definition}
\newtheorem{exercise}{Exercise}[section]
\theoremstyle{remark}
\newtheorem*{remark}{Remark}
\newtheorem*{solution}{Solution}
\begin{document}
\maketitle

In the 17th century Robert Boyle reported success in observing anomalous
suspension of water with his sophisticated air pump was put to question.
These findings were difficult to replicate due to the instruments
complexity and expence. Another scientistChristiaan Huygens was able to
demonstrate a similiar effect with his own air pump but was met with the
same reaction. Thus a debate over validating claims and differentiating
between \enquote{thought experiments} and actual experiments was
birthed. The Royal Society was not satisfied until in 1663 when Huygens
was invited to England and was able to successfully replicate this
phenomenon (Shapin, 1984).

What came from this skeptic event was a growing sense of the necessity
of replicability and establishing facts that could be observed by
others. Today, to publish in well-respected journals, researchers must
describe the methods of their study or experiment well-enough for the
reader to be able to successfully implement the same methodologies to
come to similar conclusions. Yet, these might only be read and
criticized without following through with tests. In this way, the review
of an article more akin to the thought experiments Boyle discussed than
to the effort of replicating the events.

One estimate places the rate of replication in scientific journals at
--text-- of publications.

\hypertarget{what-is-the-replication-crisis}{%
\section{\texorpdfstring{What is the \enquote{replication
crisis}?}{What is the ``replication crisis''?}}\label{what-is-the-replication-crisis}}

Pashler and Harris (2012) examined three arguments concerning the
magnitude of the replication crisis. The first argument centers around
the standard 5\% likelihood of acceptive a false null hypothesis and
80\% likelihood of rejecting a false null hypothesis. These may seem
like safe thresholds but the false positive rate is higher than at first
glance. We can calculate the probability that a positive result is false
(\(\alpha^1\)) by dividing the proportion of false positives
(\(P_\alpha\)) by the sum of the proportion of false positives and the
proportion of correct rejections (\(P_\beta\)); i.e.,
\(\alpha^1 = \frac{P_\alpha}{P_\alpha + P_\beta}\).

With an assumption that the prior probabilyt of a true effect is 10\%,
and given an \alpha level of .05, \(P_\alpha = .05 * (1 - 10) = .045\).
Given a power level of .80, we would find that
\(\alpha^1 = .045 / (.045 *s .80) = .36\). A rate of .36 for false
positives findings, given these criteria, should raise more concern

In his brazenly titled article, \enquote{Why most published research
findings are false}, Ioannidis (2005) provides a more expansive review
of the probability of false positive articles. His formualae include
variations for researcher bias and number of teams involved. Using his
methods, Iaonnidis identifies six correllaries to estimated false
positive rates: studies with smaller sizes; studies with smaller effect
sizes; the greater number of tests and less pre-selection of tests in a
study; the greater the design or methodology flexibility; the greater
the financial or interest in publishing the finding; and the more teams
involved in a particular area. His last correllary seems at first
counterintuitive without explanation. Ioannidis proposes that the
\enquote{hotter} the area of research the more pressure researchers have
to disseminate their \enquote{impressive} findings. Ioannidis comes to
the conclusion that, given all these factors, more the majority of
research -- across all fields -- are likely to be false findings.

The second argument Pashelr and Harris (2012) tackle is suggestiong that
despite a lack of direct replication, conceptual relications are more
frequent and test not just the validity of the original research but the
generability, too. The authors echo concerns from Ioannidis (2005) that
published conceptual replications represent \enquote{interesting}
findings that publications favor. The rate of published replication in
psychology is estimated at 1.07\% of publications; direct replications
constituting only 14\% of these (Makel, Plucker, \& Hegarty, 2012). The
publication rate for failed direct replications is nearly twice that of
failed conceptual replications (14.6\% and 7.5\%, respectively).

\hypertarget{false-positive-psychology}{%
\subsection{False positive-psychology}\label{false-positive-psychology}}

\hypertarget{estimating-the-reproducibility}{%
\subsection{Estimating the
reproducibility\ldots{}}\label{estimating-the-reproducibility}}

The Open Science Collaboration (OSC) of the Center for Open Science
(COS) set out on an endeavor to promote the interest in replication
studies and set standards for replications ({\textbf{???}}). The OSC
selected 100 contemporary studies across three journals in psychology
and and reported the results of their replications. Of these 100, 07
were originally reported with significant findings, but only 36 of the
replication findings reached the same conclusion. Possibly
coincidentally, this is concordant with the rough estimate that 36\% of
positive findings in research are false (Ioannidis, 2005; Pashler \&
Harris, 2012). Original studies that reported greater effect sizes and
more significant findings were more likely to be replicated than those
with smaller effects and less significance.

\hypertarget{why-replications-dont-occur}{%
\section{Why replications don't
occur}\label{why-replications-dont-occur}}

\hypertarget{case-studies}{%
\section{Case studies}\label{case-studies}}

\hypertarget{roasting-the-marshmallow-test}{%
\subsection{Roasting the marshmallow
test}\label{roasting-the-marshmallow-test}}

\hypertarget{violence-in-video-games}{%
\subsection{Violence in video-games}\label{violence-in-video-games}}

Big themes

\begin{itemize}
\item
  Current findings
\item
  Lack of standards
\item
  Concerns with data and methodology
\item
  What is the replication crisis?
\end{itemize}

One may remember a media surge fairly recently conerning questionable
results of replication attempts in psychological research. The
\enquote{Replication crisis} iss the definiting title of not just this,
but of a continuous worries from researchers exaccerbated by
scientifical publishing incentives. The worry may have been a cause of
poor scientific reporting to the general masses, a separate issue which
will not be tackled here, but may not be that surprising to resachers
and scientists. One major contributor to the media hype was the Center
for Open Science (COS) - who in 2016 published an article with 100
attempted replications of contemproary psychological research (Open
Science Collaboration, 2015). Here the collaboration of researchers
found concersn about the reproducibiliyt of the research tested. In
their original 100 study sample, 93 were reported with significant
effects\footnote{Significant effects here being defing by a reported
  \emph{p} of less than .05.} but replication attempts yield only 47
signficant results within the originally reported .95 confidence
intervals. When data were combined, only 68 studies had statistical
significance. In some cases, the replicated effect size was actually
opposite the original reported effect size.

The COS has made clear possible issues with their findings. They
acknowledge that there is no single standard for determining the success
of a replication and thus report on several measures that may be taken
into account (Open Science Collaboration, 2012, 2015). Their selection
of articles was not entirely random either, and they acknowledge that
there are inherently greater challenges in replicating some
psychological research that may rely on a specific population or
dependent on an historical event.

\begin{itemize}
\tightlist
\item
  Why is this even a crisis?
\end{itemize}

Publishers tend to value in experiments and studies over replications.
Confirmatory replications may not caught the attention of a journal
because \enquote{\emph{we already know that}}. Face value, repeated
someone else's work does not seem to contribute much to the scientific
field. Yet, replicable \enquote{serves as a kind of demarcation
criterion between science and non-science} (Braude, 2002, p. 33).
Science is science because it is replicable.

Again, no single standard for determining the success if a replication
has been established.

This is the introcuction to my paper. it is very well written. So here's
a citat ion (Open Science Collaboration, 2012) or something and (Open
Science Collaboration, 2015). Oh, here's another reference (Klein et
al., 2014) and this ought to be important.

\hypertarget{data-quality-and-ethics}{%
\subsection{Data quality and ethics}\label{data-quality-and-ethics}}

No one is possibly more infamous for fabricating data than Andrew
Wakefield. This well known example of a researcher fabricating data
related to autism spectrum distorder and the MRR vaccine. Yet,
incidences like these may be more frequent but more benign.

\hypertarget{concluding-remarks}{%
\section{Concluding remarks}\label{concluding-remarks}}

In oppositional contrast to the equating of social sciences as
\enquote{soft sciences} Sanjay Srivastava at the University of Oregon
likes to refer to Psychology as the \enquote{hardest science} has put
together a semi-satirical class syllabus on Psychology research methods
titled \enquote{Everything is F****ed} (Srivastava, n.d.). Here
Dr.~Srivastava has curated a selection of articles to highlight
shortcomings in psychological research that range from uninterpretable
results, failures to replicate, and poor statistical analyses. Yet he
still offers hope the everything is okay. Direct replication is an issue
in psychology - especially in the social realm, but that that does not
mean that all past work is questionable. As mentioned earlier,
\emph{indirect} and \emph{conceptual} replications occur often. For now,
these will have to do to demonstrate that phenomonon of past research is
sound and replicable.

We should leave with a few notes of caution and tips. Research
reproduced outside the original laboratory or collaborators aids more in
demonstrating reproducibiliy than continuous articles from the same
institution. Failure to replicate does not mean that the original effect
is invalid. As the COS has suggested, the issue may even be with the
attempt the replicate and methodological differences that were
overlooked or unnoticed. There may exists some concepts and theories
that are downright wrong and invalid but shotty research continues to
push these to publishers. In the other sense, a good idea may have gone
unnoticed because the first experiment was not successful. But we ought
not to disqualify any large portion of psychology simply because we have
some concerns about reproducibility. Early findings have been a little
grim, but these have tended towards testing recent research rather than
anything foundational.a

Not matter the results, reproducibility, openness, and transparancy will
continue to grow from these expeditions. Already the ability to directly
share research is made easy with online storage and sharing. Journals
are requiring data in order to publish -- some even with requirements
that data must be publically available (``Academic journals data sharing
requirements,'' n.d.). Often it may seem, when reading the
interpreations of researcher's work, that hypotheses are strongly
confirmed when the data suggest a weaker magnitude with more exceptions.

\newpage

\hypertarget{references}{%
\section{References}\label{references}}

\begingroup
\setlength{\parindent}{-0.5in}
\setlength{\leftskip}{0.5in}

\hypertarget{refs}{}
\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-jhl2018academic}{}%
Academic journals data sharing requirements. (n.d.). Johns Hopkins
Libraries, urldate=2018-11-24. Retrieved from
\url{http://dms.data.jhu.edu/data-management-resources/plan-research/funders-data-sharing-requirement/academic-journals-and-data-sharing-requirements/}

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-braude2002esp}{}%
Braude, S. E. (2002). \emph{ESP and psychokinesis: A philosophical
examination}. Universal-Publishers.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-ioannidis2005why}{}%
Ioannidis, J. P. (2005). Why most published research findings are false.
\emph{PLoS Medicine}, \emph{2}(8), e124.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-klein2014investigating}{}%
Klein, R. A., Ratliff, K. A., Vianello, M., Adams, R. B., Bahník, Š.,
Bernstein, M. J., \ldots{} Nosek, B. A. (2014). Investigating variation
in replicability a "many labs" replication project. \emph{Social
Psychology}, \emph{45}(3), 142--152.
doi:\href{https://doi.org/10.1027/1864-9335/a000178}{10.1027/1864-9335/a000178}

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-makel2012replications}{}%
Makel, M. C., Plucker, J. A., \& Hegarty, B. (2012). Replications in
psychology research: How often do they really occur? \emph{Perspectives
on Psychological Science}, \emph{7}(6), 537--542.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-open2012open}{}%
Open Science Collaboration. (2012). An open, large-scale, collaborative
effort to estimate the reproducibility of psychological science.
\emph{Perspectives on Psychological Science}, \emph{7}(6), 657--660.
doi:\href{https://doi.org/10.1177/1745691612462588}{10.1177/1745691612462588}

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-open2015estimating}{}%
Open Science Collaboration. (2015). Estimating the reproducibility of
psychological science. \emph{Science}, \emph{349}(6251).
doi:\href{https://doi.org/10.1126/science.aac4716}{10.1126/science.aac4716}

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-pashler2012replicability}{}%
Pashler, H., \& Harris, C. R. (2012). Is the replicability crisis
overblown? Three arguments examined. \emph{Perspectives on Psychological
Science}, \emph{7}(6), 531--536.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-shapin1984pump}{}%
Shapin, S. (1984). Pump and circumstance: Robert boyle's literary
technology. \emph{Social Studies of Science}, \emph{14}(4), 481--520.

\leavevmode\hypertarget{ref-srivastava2018everything}{}%
Srivastava, S. (n.d.). Everything is fucked: The syllabus. Retrieved
from
\url{https://thehardestscience.com/2016/08/11/everything-is-fucked-the-syllabus/}

\endgroup


\end{document}
